---
title: A Serendipitous Career
date: 2022-05-15
author: Eyzi
avatar: https://cdn.eyzi.dev/avatar.png
github: 'eyzi'
---

I love all the jobs I've ever had. My current one is nothing short of a
dream job that I still could not believe I managed to land. But these
were *not* meant to happen if not for a series of lies and a certain
last minute decision.

---

I know from a very young age that I want to deal with computers for a
living. The very first taste I had of coding, I immediately obsessed
with it, and my interest in it had only grown since.

I struggled with academics a lot, especially with subjects I do not
find interesting. In university, I finished all my computer classes
early and the last few semesters are just me struggling to get done
with the mandatory electives. Needless to say, I really saved the
uninteresting ones for last.

One quiet night right before my last semester started, I sat with my
parents at the dinner table. I told them I will be moving to a bigger
city thirty hours away from where we lived, and that I will be leaving
in a few days. This, at the time, was a lie. I hadn't plan this trip. I
didn't know what I was going to do there, or where I'll stay. I had a
friend there who didn't know I was coming. All I knew at that moment
was that I really wanted to leave.

I stuck by my words and managed to get my parents to agree, albeit
reluctantly. My friend also allowed me to stay at his place,
thankfully. When I finally got there, the first thing to do was to find
a job. Of course, no one takes an undergraduate programmer who had
nothing to show. After days of applications, I got hired as a factory
worker. It is not what I want to do, but it's a start. Days leading up
to my start date, I got everything ready. Changed my address. Applied
for my new provincial license. Bought steel-toe boots for work. All the
necessary paperwork. Everything.

Then my start date comes. I drove to work for the first time, uniform
and documents sitting neatly on the passenger seat. I parked my car in
the parking lot at 7:55 AM, five minutes before work starts. I see the
workers coming in one by one. I was ready as ready can be. The moment I
step out, I have my first "real" job. I will have to leave my
belongings in a locker as I focus on work. I will officially be living
independently. A start of my new life. Still, inside I contemplated
whether a factory work is what I want to spend my next few months
doing. So I waited as the clock ticks even closer to 8:00 AM. Three
minutes left. Two minutes left. One minute left. And then I finally
decided.

I put my car's gear into drive and I left the place at exactly 8:00 AM.
I could not do it. I know I don't want to do factory work for even the
next few days. And that chance is gone. I'm back to square one. I had
mixed feelings on my way home. A part of me is relieved that I left,
and another is extremely disappointed with the sheer unprofessionalism.
But now what? What will I tell my friend? That I'll have to be a
freeloader for another month? Do I have to wait days for another batch
of desperate job applications to factories again? These thoughts
clouded my mind as I was driving. And then... there's a ring on the
phone.

I was reluctant to answer it. I did not recognize the number but it may
very well be from the job I just left. I had to come up with an excuse
on the spot. Another lie.

> Hi. Sorry, I forgot to tell you that I was accepted in another job.

Sure, that will work. I answered the phone, trying to slow my banging
heartbeat. I just had hit a traffic so I got to stop and focus on the
guy on the phone. After the greetings, he opened.

> I got your application. I'm looking for a programmer for a project.
Are you still interested? Can you come into the office for a chat?

I don't remember applying for programming jobs as most of it require
education or previous professional experiences. Well, at least on the
actual job sites. Then it hits me, I did apply on job posting on a some
sketchy websites that make Craigslist look trustworthy. It must be one
of those. I am at the point where literally anything is better. If I
get mugged pursuing a hope, so be it.

> Yeah, I still am. Give me the address and I'll be there in half an
hour.

With that, I land my very first full-time programming job. The project
was to create a CRM system from scratch for this mid-sized company. I
was paid the bare minimum wage, but I was genuinely happy doing what I
do. Money didn't become a problem until about nine months in when I
realized I could not pay for my own place with what I'm receiving. If
this wasn't an issue, I would have loved to stay. I was happy with what
I do, but sadly, I can't keep occupying my friend's fireplace. Alas, I
had to leave and find a better job, but always thankful of them for
taking me in and giving me a chance. I did so many things in those nine
months. I've learned so much. I've finally gained valuable professional
experience and have something to show.

I easily landed my next programming job. This time in a broadcasting
and telecommunication business. More new things to learn which is
always welcome. The pay? Well, it's more than double the previous one.
Now I can really survive by myself. I was satisfied with work until I
hit yet another unfortunate challenge. As the sole "computer guy", I
was doing the work of three people: one work was for the project I was
hired for, and two are from the two IT guys that left shortly after I
started. I was able to endure that for a couple of years. Then there
have been big changes in management that just made balancing workload
more challenging. Again, I had to leave for a better opportunity.

But I left that job without a plan. I didn't know what I was going to
do next. I had enough money to survive a year comfortably so I wasn't
worried. That was around February 2020. What I didn't foresee, and
probably many others as well, was that Covid-19 would hit around that
time. It made looking for work just a bit short of impossible. Still,
I had a safety net. Thinking it would only last a few weeks, or few
months at most, I enjoyed the NEET life.

Then a year passed, and my wallet is close to being squeezed dry. I
lived relatively cheaply and my budget can be extended for a few
months, but the bills aren't shrinking. I can only be so frugal. I
have not heard back from **any** job applications. I start being
serious about it again. I find myself in the situation where I was five
years ago looking for my first programming job. The desperation starts
to rise. And then... like deja vu... there's a ring on the phone. In
fact, there were two.

I got calls back from two of the biggest international companies in the
same day. I went through both applications. Got through all the
interviews. The next several weeks was me waiting which one I'll get
accepted in. Or if one of them will actually accept me at all. Imagine
my surprised when I got accepted for both, and both calls in the same
day too. This was a surreal moment, but still, I had to choose only
one.

With that, I landed a job at one of the biggest banks as a software
developer. I am getting paid yet again double of my previous job. Life
is well. Money is not a problem. Workload is not a problem. I may very
well come across another challenge that I can't foresee. I strongly
doubt it, but I'll deal with it when that happens. As of writing this
post, I have just passed my first year with the company. It is still
nothing short of a dream job. This is all I've ever wanted to do for a
living.

It's crazy how everything fell into place the way they did. I was
satisfied with every job I had in my programming career. What lead me
to move on were little inconveniences that I could have easily sucked
up and stayed given how happy I was with the work itself. I wonder
where I would have been if I didn't take those leaps of faith. If I
didn't make up those white lies. If I stayed in any of the comfort
zones along the way. 

I still think about that moment at the parking lot of the factory and
how that last minute (indespicable) decision paved my way to happiness.
